Final Year Project developed in 2025
Development of a real-time remote tracking and monitoring system based
on the PATISMZ hardware platform. It will primarily use a microcontroller
and a wireless communications module with data transfer and position tracking technologies, although the hardware includes many more components.
The main objective of the system is to obtain geolocation data using GPS
and transmit it via a secure HTTPS connection to a web server for display
in an accessible interface.
Both the hardware and many of the utensils used in the development of
the project have been provided by the company ATISoluciones Dise˜no de
Sistemas Electr´onicos S.L.
The system was developed using embedded programming techniques.
It required a study of the operation of the USB stack at several levels,
as well as a thorough understanding of the communications module. This
project encompasses everything from the use of electrical measurement tools
to knowledge of the structure of a web-based system.
The final result is a low-cost, autonomous system that is easily integrated into IoT solutions, with applications in transportation, logistics, and
environmental monitoring. The project combines specialized hardware with
low-level development, emphasizing work on USB-level communication and
the management of standard network protocols

In the /firmware directory, you will find the code for the PIC32MZ2048EFM144 microcontroller.
The files automatically generated by MCC are located in all directories except _tests.
Files that are not inside any directory were created specifically for this project.

In the /server directory, you will find the files related to running the server that handles
the reception of the microcontroller’s position. They should be placed in the same directory on a machine
and executed using:
python3 server.py
